README.md, before:

# drone-2026

##SITL (software in the loop simulator)

How to download/install run the sitl docker image:
1. Make sure you have docker installed on your computer
2. Download this repository (i.e. clone it or download it directly)
3. Navigate to the /sitl directory in a terminal
4. To build the docker image, run: 

    docker build -t sitl .

    4a: this is a CHONKER. Expect it to take around 30 min - 1 hr. to build, and takes about
        2 GB for the Ubuntu OS
        13 GB for SITL + dependencies
        ? GB for QGroundControl
        ? GB for ROS2
        for a total of ? GB
        The benefit is that you will never have to worry about this step ever again, and the simulator should always work.* knock on wood

5. To start the docker container, run: 

    docker run -it -e DISPLAY=host.docker.internal:0 sitl

    The -it flag means "in an interactive terminal"
    The -e flag means "with environment variable"; we want to set the DISPLAY to connect to your device so you can see the Gazebo simulator window and interact with it

    5a: For the display to work, you need to have an "X" server running on your computer. On Windows, you can do this by downloading XLaunch and starting up a server. On Mac, this is typically accomplished with XQuartz. THIS IS IMPORTANT, otherwise, the GUI's will never show up.

6. Once in the container, you should see a bash terminal. you can try typing "ls" or "help", these should work as expected. You are now inside a virtual environment running Ubuntu.

7. To start the simulation, run (in bash):

    make px4_sitl gz_x500

    If successful, you should see the **PX4** logo come up, along with a window for the Gazebo simulator and the "drone" sitting on the ground.


### SITL debugging stuff

Q: When I run the simulation in step 7, I don't see a Gazebo window

A: It's likely a problem with your display forwarding. Check 5a. A good way to test is, once in the docker container bash, run 

apt-get install x11-apps 

and then run the command xeyes. If your display forwarding is working, you should get a window in the top left with a pair of googly eyes. If the googly eyes are not there, it's your display forwarding that still isn't working. You can run export DISPLAY=... when you're already in the bash terminal to try to change this.

Commit message:

Update README for simulator package instructions and add Dockerfiles for PX4 and QGroundControl environments

README.md, after:

# drone-2026

##SITL (software in the loop simulator)

How to download/install run the simulator package docker image:
1. Make sure you have docker installed on your computer
2. Download this repository (i.e. clone it or download it directly)
3. Navigate to the /simulator directory in a terminal
4. To build the docker image, run: 

    docker build -t simulator .

    4a: this is a CHONKER. Expect it to take around 30 min - 1 hr. to build, and takes about
        2 GB for the Ubuntu OS
        13 GB for SITL + dependencies
        7 GB for QGroundControl
        ? GB for ROS2
        for a total of ? GB
        The benefit is that you will never have to worry about this step ever again, and the simulator should always work.* knock on wood

5. To start the docker container, run: 

    docker run -it -e DISPLAY=host.docker.internal:0 simulator

    The -it flag means "in an interactive terminal"
    The -e flag means "with environment variable"; we want to set the DISPLAY to connect to your device so you can see the Gazebo simulator window and interact with it

    5a: For the display to work, you need to have an "X" server running on your computer. On Windows, you can do this by downloading XLaunch and starting up a server. On Mac, this is typically accomplished with XQuartz. THIS IS IMPORTANT, otherwise, the GUI's will never show up.

6. Once in the container, you should see a bash terminal. you can try typing "ls" or "help", these should work as expected. You are now inside a virtual environment running Ubuntu.

7. Get a couple terminals side by side. To do this, you can use a fancy trick called "tmux" (short for terminal multiplexor). Just run the command "tmux", and then you can do the following:
    - ctrl + B and " (shift+') adds another terminal to the side.
    - ctrl + B and % (shift+5) adds another terminal above.
    - ctrl + B and ARROWKEYS (left right up down) allows you to navigate between terminals
    - ctrl + B and [ allows you to scroll up in the current terminal you're in to look at previous stuff. hit escape to go back to normal.

8. To start QGroundControl, just run the command "qgroundcontrol", and it should work out of the box (it may throw some warning messages but that's okay)

9. To start the simulation, run (in one of your bash terminals):

    make px4_sitl gz_x500_mono_cam

    If successful, you should see the **PX4** logo come up, along with a window for the Gazebo simulator and the "drone" sitting on the ground. It should say ready for takeoff, as QGroundControl should recognize the connection to PX4.


### SITL debugging stuff

Q: When I run the simulation in step 9, I don't see a Gazebo window / in step 8 I don't see QGroundControl

A: It's likely a problem with your display forwarding. Check 5a. 

A good way to test is, once in the docker container bash, run the command xeyes. If your display forwarding is working, you should get a window in the top left with a pair of googly eyes. If the googly eyes are not there, it's your display forwarding that still isn't working. You can run export DISPLAY=... when you're already in the bash terminal to try to debug this.

Q: What if I want to try running just px4_sitl by itself (or QGroundControl, or ROS2)?
Build a docker image from one of the other folders (px4, gqc-test, etc.)
